Our text today really highlights
a very important kind of relationship.
It’s our friendship with our God, Jehovah.
Now, this was really exemplified
for us in the man Abraham.
The Bible, in several areas,
says that Jehovah called him his friend.
And this was indeed a great honor
—to be called Jehovah’s friend.
Now, why is it that Jehovah felt so close
to Abraham that He called him his friend?
The book of James, in chapter 2, verse 23,
highlights some points about what it is
about Abraham that made him so dear
to Jehovah God that He
drew close to him to call him His friend.
And in verse 23, where, of course,
the concluding phrase says:
“And he came to be called Jehovah’s friend.”
If we look in the context
of the paragraph of this scripture,
we see that Abraham lived a life of faith
—not just expressing faith in Jehovah,
but actually living faith—
doing everything
that Jehovah God told him to do
and did so in complete faith
and exactly the way
Jehovah expressed to him, or told him to do it.
It culminated, really, when Jehovah told him
to go sacrifice his son Isaac.
And if we stop and think for a moment,
what a great privilege
that drama was for Abraham to reenact
—to actually play the part
of Jehovah God himself!
And that really showed
how close Jehovah felt toward Abraham
and the trust that he had toward Abraham
that he would fulfill this drama
to really demonstrate to all of us
the depth of Jehovah’s love for mankind
and also to really show
that He really was a friend of Abraham’s.
Friendships like that of Jehovah and Abraham
are truly rewarding and very satisfying,
and they’re needed.
But at times,
they can also be a little bit challenging,
as even Abraham would attest,
because he had to fulfill
a very difficult assignment on several occasions
in order to maintain Jehovah’s friendship.
But the Bible paints
a very interesting definition for friendship,
if we look at the proverbs, especially.
We think of Proverbs 18:24, where it says:
“There are companions
ready to crush one another,
but there is a friend
who sticks closer than a brother”;
and then Proverbs 17:17:
“A true friend shows love at all times
and is a brother
who is born for times of distress”;
and further, at Proverbs 27:6, it says:
“The wounds inflicted by a friend are faithful.”
Now, when we put all these thoughts together,
we get a very deep
and beautiful composite definition
for what a true friend really is
according to Jehovah’s standards and not man’s.
We see that true friendship means
going the distance
with our brothers and sisters (our friends),
showing them love
—especially when it is difficult to do so
and even at times giving our friends
some helpful counsel
and direction when they need it.
So we can see that friendships
are not only rewarding but even necessary.
We weren’t made to go life alone.
We need friends, as created in Jehovah’s image.
He chose certain ones to be his friend,
and so likewise, we need to follow his example
and build friendships with others.
Now, in the Bible,
there are several very good examples
of friendships that existed between men.
We think of David and Jonathan,
Paul and Timothy,
and even Jesus Christ loved his apostles.
But there were those whom
he was particularly close to,
such as Peter and John and,
of course, Lazarus and his two sisters.
And, of course,
we cannot forget the loving friendship
that Ruth and Naomi had toward one another.
Now, if we just look on the surface,
we wonder why it is that such ones
were even friends with one another.
At times, great age differences
were in evidence there,
even perhaps maybe some cultural differences,
or maybe it wasn’t socially
or politically advantageous to be good friends.
Nevertheless, these individuals
were very close friends.
And how nicely this was portrayed
in this month’s broadcast too
where we saw the young man Akil
develop a close relationship
with an older brother in the congregation.
Now, why?
What was the foundation,
or the reason, for such friendships?
It was their mutual love
and devotion to Jehovah God.
That is what really lays
a firm foundation for true friendship.
And this is the key, isn’t it?
We know that in reviewing
the accounts of these individuals,
it is noted that their love for God
superseded anything of a physical nature.
This unswerving faithfulness to God
is what enabled them to be a friend
according to Jehovah’s definition
in his Word, the Bible.
This is in contrast to friendships in the world
which are oftentimes based on circumstances
or situations or even perhaps a social status.
We think of children in school.
They develop friendships there
because of being in class together
and the situation there.
Or perhaps workmates develop
a good working relationship with one another,
or work well together,
and they may even consider one another friends.
Some may even develop a very strong bond
—emotional bond—
because of a certain situation
that they have undergone together.
Now, while many of these
say this will last forever,
we realize that they can quickly dissolve,
but not friendships based on Jehovah’s love.
Jehovah endures forever.
He is for time indefinite,
and so any friendship
based on the love of God is similar.
Now, like Abraham
and to all those whom Jehovah calls friends,
he also gives us work to do
—assignments to carry out.
And in order to maintain
a friendship with Jehovah,
he expects us to carry them out
according to his directions
in order to maintain the friendship.
And we think today of how wonderfully
our brothers and sisters are volunteering
to serve in areas where the need is greater
—offering themselves willingly
in obedience to Jehovah’s command
to preach the good news
and to put Kingdom interests first
despite any, perhaps,
physical sacrifices that they may endure.
How we see that today!
Just recently, I had the privilege
of visiting the India branch on a branch visit.
And there they reviewed with me
some special campaigns
that they had organized and the results.
And it’s fascinating to consider
how our brothers and sisters gave of themselves
in order to maintain their friendship with God,
to put his Kingdom interests first,
and how Jehovah richly blessed them.
Consider one special campaign
that took place recently.
There were some 250 brothers and sisters
from North America and Western Europe,
all of Indian descent, that came to participate
in a special preaching campaign.
And consider one of the blessings
or some of the blessings
—actually, many of the blessings.
In one village,
the local congregation
that was many miles away
was conducting several Bible studies
by phone with individuals.
Now, because of the special campaign there,
the brothers and sisters were sent to this village
to meet up with these Bible students
to see how they were doing.
Well, when they arrived,
they were surprised to see
that at each home of a Bible student,
at least 15 to 20 other people
were there in attendance,
wanting to hear more
about the Kingdom good news.
In addition,
this group was sent to another village,
and when our brothers arrived,
what greeted them were some 275 people
who were gathered
at one of the Bible student’s homes,
all thirsting for Kingdom truth.
Well, the publishers
quickly divided up into groups of 20,
and they taught group Bible studies
of 20 to interested persons.
One person came up and said:
“I’ve got a relative in another city.
I want you to go call on her.
She’s a pastor.”
Well, what happened was
that when the brothers
called on that woman
who was a pastor there at her apartment,
she had 70 others gathered
to hear the Kingdom good news.
A similar experience
can be seen in the deaf field.
One brother was sent (was given) a referral slip,
and he had to travel
some four hours on a train to this village.
And when he arrived,
he was greeted at the train station
by over 130 deaf people
wanting to hear the Kingdom good news.
A group was started, and now a year later,
they have over 50 attending meetings regularly.
We can see, then, that the brothers and sisters
are responding to Jehovah’s direction
to expand the Kingdom ministry
and to cultivate their friendship with God.
What a blessing!
Certainly, such blessings
make us echo David’s words at Psalm 63:3,
where he said:
“Your loyal love [yes, your friendship]
is better than life [itself].”